# Smartphone-Application-to-Detect-Heart-Rate


Our innovative idea for a smartphone-based app to measure vital parameters using facial videos recorded using the front camera is very essential for the fast-paced and ever-changing world we live in. The app will be created specifically keeping in mind the 1.4 billion people in India and the various degrees of skin tones that are there. Skin tone is a very important characteristic for the measurement of vital parameters depends. The app once completed will be available for free on the Play Store. The app is very user-friendly and has a UI suitable for people of all ages which broadens its customer base. The users have to only record 30-second facial videos using the front camera and the Deep Learning algorithm in the app will run and give the values of the vital parameters. The driving force behind the creation of this app is the fact that almost everyone has a smartphone but not everyone has a smartwatch that can measure vital parameters. This makes the app more appealing as a product because it cancels the need to invest in a smartwatch which increases in cost with an increase in functionality and features. On the other hand, downloading the app needs no additional investment as the user already has a smartphone. This makes us confident that the app as a product will create an impact and stay in the market. Based on the outreach, this app might be used to schedule doctor consultation sessions, assisting in the growth of the telemedicine profession.
